# CIFtoLIF
A pipeline for 2D lead iodide perovskites, converting Crystallographic Information Files into LAMMPS Input Files, making high-throughput molecular dynamics simulations possible. Developed for BSc thesis.

If you are only interested in the CIF to LAMMPS conversion, go directly to "2. Pipeline". "1. Download Cifs" is a folder with a BASH script to automatically download CIFs from the NMSE 2D perovskite database. "3. MD Simulation" is a text file, explaining how the simulations should be executed. Finally, "4. Data Analysis" contains a Jupiter Notebook file, which is used to create different graphs from the MD data. 

1. Download Cifs. Run the file in Visual Studio Code, comparable software or the terminal. The "Perovskite_data" file should be located in the same folder, so that the elements can be read from the second column. When executed, the files will download from the NMSE 2D perovskite database and be stored in the "CIFs" folder. You can move over the downloaded files to the "input cifs" of the pipeline if you want to convert them to LAMMPS input files. 

Requirements:
  - requests
  - threading
  - pandas
  - python

2. Pipeline. Because AmberTools can't be used on Windows or Mac, a Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) running Ubuntu has to be used. You can download it here: https://ubuntu.com/wsl. Create a conda environment to install all packages. The easiest way to do this is to use the requirements.yml file found in the perov_to_lammps folder. This website explains how you can do this: https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#creating-an-environment-from-an-environment-yml-file. To get to your :C directory on Ubuntu WSL, type cd .. twice, then cd mnt and then cd c. From there, you can navigate to your main.py. Put the CIFs you want to convert in the "input cifs" folder. To run the code, type "python3 main.py". The failed cifs with their corresponding errors will be written in "failed_cifs.txt". The successful conversions will be stored in the "simulation files" folder. Note that this pipeline only supports Lead Iodide perovskites without any other halogens present. The Buckingham or Lennard Jones parameters of other elements can be added in the "lammps_finalizer" file in "perov_to_lammps".

Requirements
  - networkx
  - pymatgen
  - rdkit
  - openbabel
  - ambertools
  - python=3.10
  - numpy

3. MD simulation. Read the text file.

4. Data analysis. Use the "download_compression_delftblue" bash script to automatically download the useful data from delftblue to your computer. Create an SSH key, so you don't have to enter your password a million times. This is explained here: https://doc.dhpc.tudelft.nl/delftblue/Remote-access-to-DelftBlue/#ssh. Open the Jupiter Notebook file in Visual Studio Code or a comparable program to start the data analysis. First, run the cell containing all the functions. Then, the other cells can be executed. Note that the "combined_perovskite_data" file which is generated by the pipeline has to be present in the folder, because the z direction is necessary for the data analysis. The plots of specific structures will be stored in the "data" folder. Plots containing information on all the processed perovskites will be stored in the "plots" folder.

Requirements:
  -  os
  -  pandas
  -  numpy
  -  matplotlib.pyplot
  -  python
